So now, we have successfully built out all of
the individual screens inside our application.
The next thing and the last thing we need to do,
is add React router so that we can dynamically change
what component is being rendered based on the URL.
So, the first thing we'll do is let's head over to our console
and we want to yarn add react-router-dom.
Then, once that's installed go ahead and run yarn
start and let's head over to our main app.js file here.
So, what we want to do is you'll notice in the final app we have
this nav bar up here so I'm going to create a new file called nav.js,
and I'm just going to paste this one in because there's
nothing here that you're going to learn that's new.
All we're rendering are a few NavLinks,
one that takes us to home and one that takes us to "/new".
So now, inside of app.js,
what we can do is import that.
We also want to import a few other things specifically related to react router.
So, we will grab BrowserRouter.
We will rename it router and then we will also grab route coming from react-router-dom.
Then we also want to grab fragment coming from react.
The reason we want to do that,
is because now what we need to do,
is we want to wrap everything inside of our router.
Now, instead of rendering an individual component,
what we want to do is render some routes. So, let's have a div here.
Inside of this div,
what we will have is our first route.
So, when we are on the slash or the home view,
this will match exactly the component we want to render.
It's going to be our dashboard component when we are
on "/tweet" with a URL parameter of whatever the tweet ideas,
we want to render the tweet page component.
Then finally, when we're on "/new",
the component we want to be rendered is going to be the new tweet component.
So, that looks good now what we can do is let's
also not forget to render our nav bar that we created,
and then we want to wrap all of this inside of a div with a class name of container.
But right now, if we were to run this what you would notice is
when we hit "Refresh" notice that
our loading bar is stuck inside of our main container here.
So, what we want to do is we want to be able to move this up, something like that.
But now, what's going to happen is we're going to get an error because we need to pass
a single child element as the child to router.
Right now, where you're passing at a loading bar as well as a div.
So, what we can do here, and this is why we
installed fragment earlier and why we imported it,
is we can wrap everything inside of fragment.
Typically, what you would do is you would do like a div here
but that would add an extra div to the dom and we don't want to do that,
so we can use fragment which will allow us to pass a single child to
react routers router components but it won't actually add any other elements to the dom.
So now, what we should be able to do inside of our app is we can navigate around.
But there are two other places where we want to add a router functionality.
If you remember, when we compose a new tweet,
we want to be taken back to the home view.
Right now, inside of our new tweet component,
all we do is we say, "Hey,
this is a thing we need to do when the form is submitted,
or when the new tweet is submitted go ahead and redirect back to slash."
So, what we'll do is let's come up here and
import the redirect component coming from react-router-dom.
We're going to add a new property to our state called,
"toHome" When we submit or when our handle submit method runs,
instead of just resetting text to an empty string,
what we also want to do is update toHome and right now,
if you remember, we have the ability to reply to a tweet.
So, our functionality is that if we are replying to a tweet,
then we don't want to be taken to the home view,
instead we just want to stay on this view,
so we can see the reply here.
But if we are composing our new tweet,
then we want to be taken to home.
So, what we can do is we can say if ID is a thing,
then toHome is going to be false.
If not, then toHome is going to be true.
Now that we have our toHome property on our state,
what we can do is inside of our render method,
let's first grab toHome off of our state.
If toHome equals true then instead of rendering some UI what we
want to render is our redirect component and where do we want to go,
we want to go to the 'Home' view.
So, now what should happen is when we create
a new tweet instead of staying on the /new page,
we get taken to the home view,
and then our UI updates,
and we see the brand new tweet there.
Now, the only other functionality we need to add with react router is we need to be
able to click on all of these different tweets to be taken to the tweet page.
So, we can do that inside of our tweet.js component.
So first, let's import link from react-router-dom.
Then what we want to do is instead of rendering a div here,
we actually want to render the link component.
So, we will change out that div for a link.
Now, when the user clicks on this link,
where do we want them to be taken to?
Well, we want them to be taken to /tweet/ whatever the tweet ID is.
So now, we'll notice here ID is not defined,
that's because we need to grab that from our tweets.
So now, if we click on a link,
notice that we get taken to the tweet page.
But another feature that we want to add here,
is you'll remember this right here is a button.
So if they click on this button right here,
we want them to be taken to the tweet that they were replying to,
which we have already set up a function to do that right here.
So, inside of toParent, what we want to do,
is we want to tell react-router that we want to go to tweet/ this new ID.
Typically, the way that you would do that
the non-declarative way is by doing this.props.history.push,
and then we can say tweet/ the ID we are replying to.
But the problem here is,
our tweet component isn't being rendered by react router.
So, we're not being passed this.props.history.
So, what we can do is we can import the width router higher-order component and then now
what we're going to export is we're just going to wrap all of this in withRouter.
So, what that's going to do is it's going to pass
our connected component which will then pass our tweet component all of
the router props which will allow us to do this.props.history.push.
So now, what we should see inside of our app,
is let's come down here and click on "Replying to",
and now we get taken to the tweet that Dan
was under originally replying to which was my tweet right here.